•	Broad Network Access: Capabilities are available over the network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms (e.g., mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and workstations).
•	Resource Pooling: The provider’s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi-tenant model, with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to consumer demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the customer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction (e.g., country, state, or Datacentre). Examples of resources include storage, processing, memory, and network bandwidth.
•	Rapid Elasticity: Capabilities can be elastically provisioned and released, in some cases automatically, to scale rapidly outward and inward commensurate with demand. To the consumer, the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be appropriated in any quantity at any time
•	Measured Service: Cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability1 at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service (e.g., storage, processing, bandwidth, and active user accounts). Resource usage can be monitored, controlled and reported, providing transparency for both the providers and consumers of the utilized service. 
1.3 Cloud Computing Service Models
Cloud service model describes how cloud services are made available to the clients. Most fundamental service models include a combination of IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service), PaaS (platform as a service), and SaaS (Software as a Service). These service models may have synergies between each other and be interdependent – for example, PaaS is dependent on 



Figure1.2: Characteristics of Cloud Computing [34]

IaaS because application platforms require physical infrastructure (see Figure 1.3). 
1. IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service): This model provides infrastructure components to clients. Components may include virtual machines, storage, networks, firewalls, load balancers, and so on. With IaaS, clients have direct access to the lowest-level software in the stack – that is, to the operating system on virtual machines, or to the management dashboard of a firewall or load balancer. Amazon Web Services is one of largest IaaS providers.
 2. PaaS (Platform as a Service): This model delivers a pre-built application platform to the client; clients needn’t spend time building underlying infrastructure for their applications. On the backend, PaaS automatically scales and provisions required infrastructure components depending on application requirements. Typically, PaaS solutions provide an API that includes a set of functions for programmatic platform management and solution development. Google App Engine is a popular PaaS provider, and Amazon Web Services also provides some PaaS solutions in addition to IaaS offerings.
3. SaaS (Software as a Service): This model provides ready online software solutions. The SaaS software provider has complete control of application software. SaaS application examples include online mail, project-management systems, CRMs, and social media platforms. 
1.4 Deployment Models of Cloud Computing
There are various deployment models shown in Figure (1.4).
1. Private Cloud: Private Cloud (internal Cloud) infrastructure is dedicated to a single particular organization or group. It is not shared with other organizations. Private cloud can be owned or leased. 

 
Figure1.3: Service Models of Cloud Computing [35]

It may be managed by the organization or a third party and can exist at On-premises or Off-premises. Private cloud is more expensive and secure when compared to public cloud [3]. Private cloud is hosted inside the organization’s firewall. It can be accessed by users within the organization via intranet. Public cloud (external cloud) infrastructure clouds are flexible and service-based. Processes, services and data are managed within the organization. In private cloud there are no additional security regulations, legal requirements or bandwidth limitations that can be present in a public cloud environment. By using a private cloud, the cloud service providers and the clients have optimized control of the infrastructure and improved security, since user’s access and the networks used are restricted [4].
2. Public Cloud: Public cloud (external cloud) is offered via web applications as well as web services over the internet to the public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services. Public cloud provides an elastic, cost-effective way to deploy IT solutions. Public cloud involves applications such as customer relationship management (CRM), messaging and office productivity. Public Cloud providers such as Google or Amazon offer an access control to their clients [4].
3. Hybrid Cloud: It is a combination of two or more cloud service deployment models (Private, Public and Community).Organizations may host critical applications on private clouds and applications with relatively less security concerns on the public cloud [4].
4. Community Cloud: Community cloud is a shared infrastructure by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission, security requirements, policy, and compliance considerations. It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist at on-premises or off-premises. Community cloud offers higher level of privacy, security and policy compliances. Examples of community clouds include Google’s “Gov Cloud”
5. Combined Cloud: Combined cloud is formed of two clouds that have been joined together. It consists of multiple internal and external providers. By integrating multiple cloud services, users will be able to ease the transition to public cloud services while avoiding issues such as Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance.
6. Inter Cloud (Cloud of Clouds): Inter cloud refers to a mesh of clouds that are interconnected based on open standards to provide a universal environment for cloud computing. It is a concept based on the aggregation of deployed clouds similar tointernet, which is a network of networks. It refers to an inter-connected global cloud of clouds that provides massive collection of services to the users.
